**86%** of the respondents **split their machines into small logic units**, like a machine for notifications or a machine per step in a multi-step form. At the same time, **utility machines**, like machines to fetch data with automatic revalidation, are only used by **37%** of the respondents.

Richard Seaman uses XState everywhere in his application and does a lot of HTTP calls, but he only uses utility machines a little. In the case of HTTP requests, he doesn't need things like revalidation, so the interest in having a utility machine for that is less evident. This is [AHA programming](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/aha-programming): Avoid Hasty Abstractions until an abstraction is apparent.

### Different ways of creating state machines

The most significant benefit of state machines over other ways of coding is their visual representation. The Stately team is developing tools to visualize and edit state machines and collaborate on them.

My workflow to create and edit state machines is to use the Stately extension for VS Code; I'm using it to perform 90% of the work on my machines, and I'm editing code directly to add types and make larger-scale changes like moving a lot of states, which I find easier with code at the moment.

**33%** of the respondents are using Stately Editor embedded into VS Code too, and also **33%** of the respondents are using Stately Editor online to collaborate on machines.

Cédric Radicia uses online Stately Editor to collaborate with designers and product people. He loves the tool's capabilities to convey meaning without words, through colors for groups of states and events, or screenshots of UI elements as states' descriptions (Stately Editor supports Markdown in descriptions!).
