### Naming conventions

When modeling things with XState, the most basic act is to create states and events. But how should they be named?

Most respondents use conventions for states and events from a technical background.

Indeed, **76%** of them declare using **camel-case** (`waitingForServerResponse`), and **39%** of them use **all-caps case** (`WAITING_FOR_SERVER_RESPONSE`). **24%** of the respondents use **sentence-case** (`Waiting for server response`).

I'm using sentence-case for most of my machines now. Since Stately released visual tools, I have written my state machines in plain English. It is helpful to use words a non-developer can understand instead of technical jargon.

### Deciding when to use a state machine

Another difficulty with modeling state machines is that sometimes, not using a state machine could be a better choice.

**71%** of the respondents use XState for **data fetching**.

Most of the time, when building a SPA or a React Native application, I prefer to use [TanStack Query](https://tanstack.com/query/) as it brings a caching system, automatic revalidation of queries, and many more things I would like to don't reimplement across projects.

Javier Madueño uses TanStack Query for fetching instead of XState. Still, he points out that if there are dependencies between calls, he will use XState to orchestrate the invalidation of queries.

Richard Seaman finds it correct to use some `useState` hooks to solve simple problems, but he directly reaches out to state machines when the problems evolve and requires more logic.
