Testing is a complex topic in the industry, and that's also true about XState.

XState users disagree on a single pattern to test their state machines, and that's great! There are always many ways to pursue the same goal in our profession.

### Beyond tests maintained by developers

**11%** of the respondents are **not responsible for testing**. Some of them delegate UI testing to QA testers.

Christian Grøngaard does not write e2e tests, as QA testers maintain them.

Javier Madueño delegates e2e tests to QA too, and he shares the state machines he built with them so that they have a visual representation of the system they are testing and can better find edge cases.

Building software with XState [reduces the number of bugs](https://statecharts.dev/benefit-low-bug-count.html) and eases debugging. Making the code visual makes it easier to understand why a sequence of events led to an invalid state.

Aleksandra Desmurs-Linczewska uses XState Viz to test the machine separately from the application.

### Model-Based Testing

Another interesting topic regarding testing and XState is Model-Based Testing.

[Model-Based Testing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model-based_testing) is a way to test the software by modeling how it can be used by a user, for example, and generating all possible usage combinations.

These combinations can drive tests that should cover all the possible ways to use the software.

Depending on the model, these combinations may include all the possible sequences for a set of events.
