The Stately team built a library for Model-Based Testing with XState: [`@xstate/test`](https://stately.ai/docs/xstate/model-based-testing/intro). With this library, we can model a system with an XState machine.

According to my survey results, Model-Based Testing is an advanced and controversial topic about XState. **26%** of the respondents declared they **don't know what Model-Based Testing is**, and **51%** reported they **still need to give Model-Based Testing a try**.

`@xstate/test` is a powerful tool, but developers should only use it to test something that requires a heavy setup. **10%** of the respondents think **Model-Based Testing benefits don't outweigh the setup costs and the tests' complexity**.

In the end, **13%** of the respondents **used Model-Based Testing**.

And there is another segmentation here! Indeed, developers can run `@xstate/test` on the implementation machines or specific machines built to represent the system from a user's eyes.

**5%** of the respondents do Model-Based Testing on their **implementation machines**.

Cédric Radicia is doing so. It allows him to write integration tests for scoped components, like a complex input, and ensure they work properly in whatever way a user interacts with them and in whatever sequence of events.

The other part of `@xstate/test` users (**8%** of the respondents) is creating a **separate machine** to model and run tests on the system.

Doing so is better to test a whole system however it has been implemented: you can then use `@xstate/test` to test a codebase that wasn't coded with XState.

I usually use Model-Based Testing by creating a separate machine for the testing model. This pattern is useful to test complex flows [as an authentication flow](https://github.com/AdonisEnProvence/MusicRoom/blob/788fa78afccf5c6430213ec50aa6f1cebd6a336f/packages/client/__tests__/Authentication.test.tsx#L8), where validation and server errors are mixed with redirections.
